README.jinja.md, before:

# awe

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/dankilman/awe.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/dankilman/awe)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/awe.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/awe)

Dynamic web based reports/dashboards in python.

## Motivation:

`awe` use cases:
- Create a report for some data you collected in your scripts.
- Poll some data/state in your script and update a chart displaying that data.
- A replacement for print statements in your scripts that can include 
  interactive tables, charts, headers, colors, etc... with minimum fuss.

`awe` isn't for you if you need to:
- Do web development.
- Handle a massive amount of data. `awe` is quite wasteful in terms of resources. This works
  well for small-ish amounts of data. On the other hand, charts with many points will
  probably make your browser completely unresponsive (not benchmarked yet, just a hunch).

Under the hood, `awe` generates the page using react.

## Why is it named `awe`?

I like short names. I initially called this package `pages` but then discovered it is already taken in `pypi`.
Finding a decent unused name is not an easy task!


## Installation
```bash
pip install awe
```

## Getting Started

The basic idea in `awe` is that you create an `awe.Page()` instance in the beginning of your script. e.g:

```python
from awe import Page
page = Page()
```

The page is built by creating a hierarchy of elements. Every element, including the root `Page` element, exposes
`new_XXX()` methods that create element children.

These methods can create leaf elements such as `new_text()`, `new_table()`, etc... e.g:

```python
page.new_text('Hello there')
```

They can also create container elements such as `new_tabs()`, `new_card()` etc... e.g:

```python
card = page.new_card()
```

If you don't intend to dynamically add data to an element, you can simply call the `new_XXX()` method with appropriate
arguments and be done with it.

If you do plan on adding data dynamically or create some element hierarchy, then keep a reference to the created
element, returned by the `new_XXX()` call. e.g:

```python
card = page.new_card()
text = card.new_text('Text inside of card')
button = card.new_button(lambda: None)
```

The above creates a card as a child element of `page` and `text` and `button` elements as children of `card`.

Once you're done with the initial page setup, call `page.start()`. e.g:

```python
# The default call will open a browser page without blocking the script
page.start()

# This will block the script
page.start(block=True)

# This will prevent the default browser open behavior
page.start(open_browser=False)
```

The [examples](#examples) section can be used as reference for the different elements that can be created with `awe`.

## Export To Static HTML

At any point during the lifetime of a page you can export its current state to a standalone `html` file you can
freely share.

You can export in any of the following ways:
- Open the options by clicking the options button at the top right and then click **Export**.
- Open the options by holding `Shift` and typing `A A A` (three consecutive A's) and then click **Export**.
- Hold `Shift` and type `A A E` (two A's then E).

Note that for the keyboard shortcuts to work, the focus should be on some page content.

### Export function

By default, when you export a page, the result is simply downloaded as a static file.

You can override this default behavior by passing an `export_fn` argument when creating the `Page` instance. e.g:

```python
import time

from awe import Page

from utils import save_to_s3  # example import, not something awe comes bundled with


def custom_export_fn(index_html):
    # index_html is the static html content as a string.
    # You can, for example, save the content to S3. 
    save_to_s3(
        bucket='my_bucket', 
        key='page-{}.html'.format(time.time()), 
        content=index_html
    )
    
    # Returning a dict from the export_fn function tells awe to skip the default download behavior.
    # Returning anything else is expected to be a string that will be downloaded in the browser.
    # This can be the unmodified index_html, a modified one, a json with statistics, etc...
    # Note that awe currently doesn't do anything with the resulting dict if one is returned except 
    # for deciding whether to download the result or not. This is likely to change in the future.
    return {'status': 'success'}


def main():
    page = Page(export_fn=custom_export_fn)
    page.new_text('Hello')
    page.start(block=True)


if __name__ == '__main__':
    main()
```


## Examples

{% macro example(name, extension='gif') -%}
### [`{{name}}.py`](examples/{{name}}.py)
{{ docstring(name) }}
```python
{{ load(name) }}
 ```
![image](docs/images/{{name}}.{{extension}})
{% endmacro %}

{{ example('hello_world', 'png') }}
{{ example('button_and_input') }}
{{ example('chart_simple') }}
{{ example('chart_complex') }}
{{ example('kitchen') }}
{{ example('page_properties', 'png') }}
{{ example('standard_output') }}
{{ example('collapse', 'png') }}
{{ example('chart_flat') }}

Commit message:

bump version and implement basic key/value table for export object result

README.jinja.md, after:

# awe

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/dankilman/awe.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/dankilman/awe)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/awe.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/awe)

Dynamic web based reports/dashboards in python.

## Motivation:

`awe` use cases:
- Create a report for some data you collected in your scripts.
- Poll some data/state in your script and update a chart displaying that data.
- A replacement for print statements in your scripts that can include 
  interactive tables, charts, headers, colors, etc... with minimum fuss.

`awe` isn't for you if you need to:
- Do web development.
- Handle a massive amount of data. `awe` is quite wasteful in terms of resources. This works
  well for small-ish amounts of data. On the other hand, charts with many points will
  probably make your browser completely unresponsive (not benchmarked yet, just a hunch).

Under the hood, `awe` generates the page using react.

## Why is it named `awe`?

I like short names. I initially called this package `pages` but then discovered it is already taken in `pypi`.
Finding a decent unused name is not an easy task!


## Installation
```bash
pip install awe
```

## Getting Started

The basic idea in `awe` is that you create an `awe.Page()` instance in the beginning of your script. e.g:

```python
from awe import Page
page = Page()
```

The page is built by creating a hierarchy of elements. Every element, including the root `Page` element, exposes
`new_XXX()` methods that create element children.

These methods can create leaf elements such as `new_text()`, `new_table()`, etc... e.g:

```python
page.new_text('Hello there')
```

They can also create container elements such as `new_tabs()`, `new_card()` etc... e.g:

```python
card = page.new_card()
```

If you don't intend to dynamically add data to an element, you can simply call the `new_XXX()` method with appropriate
arguments and be done with it.

If you do plan on adding data dynamically or create some element hierarchy, then keep a reference to the created
element, returned by the `new_XXX()` call. e.g:

```python
card = page.new_card()
text = card.new_text('Text inside of card')
button = card.new_button(lambda: None)
```

The above creates a card as a child element of `page` and `text` and `button` elements as children of `card`.

Once you're done with the initial page setup, call `page.start()`. e.g:

```python
# The default call will open a browser page without blocking the script
page.start()

# This will block the script
page.start(block=True)

# This will prevent the default browser open behavior
page.start(open_browser=False)
```

The [examples](#examples) section can be used as reference for the different elements that can be created with `awe`.

## Export To Static HTML

At any point during the lifetime of a page you can export its current state to a standalone `html` file you can
freely share.

You can export in any of the following ways:
- Open the options by clicking the options button at the top right and then click **Export**.
- Open the options by holding `Shift` and typing `A A A` (three consecutive A's) and then click **Export**.
- Hold `Shift` and type `A A E` (two A's then E).

Note that for the keyboard shortcuts to work, the focus should be on some page content.

### Export function

By default, when you export a page, the result is simply downloaded as a static file.

You can override this default behavior by passing an `export_fn` argument when creating the `Page` instance. e.g:

```python
import time

from awe import Page

from utils import save_to_s3  # example import, not something awe comes bundled with


def custom_export_fn(index_html):
    # index_html is the static html content as a string.
    # You can, for example, save the content to S3.
    key='page-{}.html'.format(time.time()) 
    save_to_s3(
        bucket='my_bucket', 
        key=key, 
        content=index_html
    )
    
    # Returning a dict from the export_fn function tells awe to skip the default download behavior.
    # awe will also display a simple key/value table modal built from the dict result.
    # Returning anything else is expected to be a string that will be downloaded in the browser.
    # This can be the unmodified index_html, a modified one, a json with statistics, etc...
    return {'status': 'success', 'key': key}


def main():
    page = Page(export_fn=custom_export_fn)
    page.new_text('Hello')
    page.start(block=True)


if __name__ == '__main__':
    main()
```


## Examples

{% macro example(name, extension='gif') -%}
### [`{{name}}.py`](examples/{{name}}.py)
{{ docstring(name) }}
```python
{{ load(name) }}
 ```
![image](docs/images/{{name}}.{{extension}})
{% endmacro %}

{{ example('hello_world', 'png') }}
{{ example('button_and_input') }}
{{ example('chart_simple') }}
{{ example('chart_complex') }}
{{ example('kitchen') }}
{{ example('page_properties', 'png') }}
{{ example('standard_output') }}
{{ example('collapse', 'png') }}
{{ example('chart_flat') }}
